# Github Commit Explorer
========================
## Installing
-------------

  * Install an Apache or Nginx server of your choice
  * Install composer
  * Clone the repository
  * Run composer install to install all dependencies
  * Place the root of your php server at /public/index.php
  * Run your server

## Features
-----------

The Github Commit Explorer application allows to navigate in the last commits of any github repository. You have the possibility to search a repository with the user name of the owner and the name of the repository. Then you can access to the list of the last commits. Finally you have access to more details for each commit. When it's possible the profile pictures are linked to the github user page.

## Choices
----------

I chose to make this application using the PHP framework Laravel. It was the occasion for me to work and learn a new framework. I didn't use front-end JS framework because I decided to focus on PHP. In my opinion a total front-end application could have done this project more efficiently. The main problem here is that the github request pass by the server before going to the client so the request to the server take more time.

## To Do
--------

 * Improve Input management to handle input erros.
 * Implement a sort by author/date.
 * Implement a commit search in a repository.

## Routes
---------

  * /home

On this page you can search for a repository or try with the torvalds/linux repository. If you try to access to a route which is not defined you will be redirected to this route.

  * /{user}/{repo}/commits

This page give access to the last commits of the repository {repo} owned by {user}. You have access to the search to navigate to an other repository or you can go back to the home page with the top left button. The list give the last commits with

  * /{user}/{repo}/commits/{sha}

Give access to the details of a selected commit. You have a link to see the commit on github, the date, the user, the message and the parent commits with link the see their details.

## Architechture

Files which are not described here are generated by the framework.

  * /public Server root
    * /css Contains all my css
    * /index.php Entry point to the app

  * /routes
    * /web.php File where I define all my routes

  * /app
    * /Http
      * /Controllers
        * /CommitsController.php File where I define action link to each route

  * /resources
    * /views
      * /page.blade.php View which contain all different views.
      * /home.blade.php Home page
      * /CommitDetails
        * /CommitDetailsPage.blade.php Container of the commit details page
        * /CommitDetails.blade.php Commit details page
      * /CommitList
        * /CommitListPage.blade.php Container of the commit list
        * /CommitList.blade.php Commit List
        * /CommitListElement.blade.php Element of the commit list
      * /Common Code which is common to different views
        * /Header.blade.php Header
        * /SearchForm.blade.php Search from to search a repository
